[docs] Refactor vSphere Getting Started (#5743)
deckhouse/deckhouse: ee/candi/cloud-providers/vsphere/docs/ENVIRONMENT.md

## List of required vSphere resources

* **User** with required set of [permissions](#creating-and-assigning-a-role).
* **Network** with DHCP server and access to the Internet
* **Datacenter** with a tag in [`k8s-region`](#creating-tags-and-tag-categories) category.
* **Cluster** with a tag in [`k8s-zone`](#creating-tags-and-tag-categories) category.
* **Datastore** with required [tags](#datastore-configuration).
* **Template** — [prepared](#preparing-a-virtual-machine-image) VM image.

## vSphere configuration

### Installing govc

> You'll need the vSphere CLI — [govc](https://github.com/vmware/govmomi/tree/master/govc#installation) to proceed with the rest of the guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need the vSphere CLI — [govc](https://github.com/vmware/govmomi/tree/master/govc#installation) — to proceed with the rest of the guide.
```

> After installation, set environment variables to work with vCenter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the installation is complete, set the environment variables required to work with vCenter:
```

```shell
export GOVC_URL=example.com
export GOVC_USERNAME=<username>@vsphere.local
export GOVC_PASSWORD=<password>
export GOVC_INSECURE=1
```

### Creating tags and tag categories

> VMware vSphere doesn't have "regions" and "zones". It has `Datacenter` and `Cluster` objects. To establish relation between these and "regions"/"zones" we'll use tags that fall into two tag categories. One for "region" tags and another for "zones tags".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of "regions" and "zones", VMware vSphere provides `Datacenter` and `Cluster` objects. We will use tags to match them with "regions"/"zones". These tags fall into two categories: one for "regions" tags and the other for "zones" tags.
```

> Create tag category with commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a tag category using the following commands:
```

```shell
govc tags.category.create -d "Kubernetes Region" k8s-region
govc tags.category.create -d "Kubernetes Zone" k8s-zone
```

> Create tags in each category. If you intend to use multiple "zones" (`Cluster`), create a tag for each of them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create tags in each category. If you intend to use multiple "zones" (`Cluster`), create a tag for each one of them:
```

```shell
govc tags.create -d "Kubernetes Region" -c k8s-region test-region
govc tags.create -d "Kubernetes Zone Test 1" -c k8s-zone test-zone-1
govc tags.create -d "Kubernetes Zone Test 2" -c k8s-zone test-zone-2
```

Attach the "region" tag to `Datacenter`:

```shell
govc tags.attach -c k8s-region test-region /<DatacenterName>
```

> Attach "zone" tags to `Cluster` objects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attach "zone" tags to the `Cluster` objects:
```

```shell
govc tags.attach -c k8s-zone test-zone-1 /<DatacenterName>/host/<ClusterName1>
govc tags.attach -c k8s-zone test-zone-2 /<DatacenterName>/host/<ClusterName2>
```

#### Datastore configuration

{% alert level="warning" %}
For dynamic `PersistentVolume` provisioning, a `Datastore` must be available on **each** ESXi host (shared datastore).
{% endalert %}

> `StorageClass` objects will be created automatically for each `Datastore` that is tagged with "region" and "zone" tags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`StorageClass` objects will be created automatically for each `Datastore` tagged with the "region" and "zone" tags:
```

> `StorageClass` objects will be created automatically for each `Datastore` tagged with the "region" and "zone" tags:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assign the "region" and "zone" tags to the `Datastore` objects to automatically create a `StorageClass` in the Kubernetes cluster:
```

```shell
govc tags.attach -c k8s-region test-region /<DatacenterName>/datastore/<DatastoreName1>
govc tags.attach -c k8s-zone test-zone-1 /<DatacenterName>/datastore/<DatastoreName1>

govc tags.attach -c k8s-region test-region /<DatacenterName>/datastore/<DatastoreName1>
govc tags.attach -c k8s-zone test-zone-2 /<DatacenterName>/datastore/<DatastoreName2>
```

### Creating and assigning a role

{% alert %}
We've intentionally skipped User creation since there are many ways to authenticate a user in the vSphere.

This all-encompassing Role should be enough for all Deckhouse components. If you need a more granular Role, please contact your Deckhouse support.
{% endalert %}

> You have to create a role with a following list of permissions and assign it to `vCenter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to create a role with the following list of permissions and assign it to `vCenter`.
```

> Create role with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a role with the command:
```

```shell
govc role.create deckhouse \
   Cns.Searchable Datastore.AllocateSpace Datastore.Browse Datastore.FileManagement \
   Global.GlobalTag Global.SystemTag Network.Assign StorageProfile.View \
   $(govc role.ls Admin | grep -F -e 'Folder.' -e 'InventoryService.' -e 'Resource.' -e 'VirtualMachine.')
```

> Assign the role to a user on `vCenter` object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assign the role to a user on the `vCenter` object:
```

```shell
govc permissions.set -principal <username>@vsphere.local -role deckhouse /
```

### Preparing a virtual machine image

> It is recommended to use a pre-built cloud image/OVA file provided by a OS vendor to create a `Template`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use a pre-built cloud image/OVA file provided by the OS vendor to create a `Template`:
```

* [**Ubuntu**](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/)
* [**Debian**](https://cloud.debian.org/images/cloud/)
* [**CentOS**](https://cloud.centos.org/)
* [**Rocky Linux**](https://rockylinux.org/alternative-images/) (*Generic Cloud / OpenStack* section)

#### Virtual machine image requirements

Deckhouse uses `cloud-init` to configure a virtual machine after startup. To do this, the following packages must be installed in the image:

* cloud-init
* open-vm-tools

> * [`cloud-init-vmware-guestinfo`](https://github.com/vmware-archive/cloud-init-vmware-guestinfo#installation) (if `cloud-init` version is older than 21.3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`cloud-init-vmware-guestinfo`](https://github.com/vmware-archive/cloud-init-vmware-guestinfo#installation) (for `cloud-init` versions older than 21.3)
```
